# Jucenit internals

## What it is.

I do not have the time to maintain such a good piece of software
as a mature server like nginx-unit.

Jucenit is only a translation layer from an easy toml syntax
to nginx-unit configuration file.

Plus some utilities to ease ssl renewal and live edit configuration.

## Crate structure

Database crates:

- migration: Database schema definition.
- entity: Autogenerated with ORM.

Convenience crates:

- jucenit: Entrypoint for binary.
- utils: Pipelight utility crate for filesystem and process management.

Core crate:

- jucenit_core: The main crate were the everything is done.
  Core modules:
  - cast: toml to database entities
  - nginx: database entities to json and ssl renewal.

## How it works.

### File type convertion.

The toml configuration is split into small related entities that are pushed to a relational database (sqlite).
The entities are then taken from the database,
and reassembled into the equivalent nginx-unit configuration.

Yes, the database serves the solo purpose of file convertion,
so it is has a pretty simple schema, but it drastically decreases the code comlexity.

```mermaid
graph LR

A(jucenit.toml) ---> B{Database} ---> C(nginx-unit.json)

```

The database schema is defined inside the **migration crate** through a practical rust orm
[sea_orm](https://www.sea-ql.org/SeaORM/docs/index/).

_I have been traumatised with ORM so I could have written raw SQL, but SeaORM really
does a pleasant heavy lifting._

Simplified diagram without relation tables.

```mermaid
classDiagram
    Match <|-- Action
    Match <|-- Host
    Match <|-- Listener
    class Match {
        raw_parameters
    }
    class Host {
        raw_parameters
    }
    class Listener {
        raw_parameters
    }
    class Action {
        raw_parameters
    }

```

Complete diagram with relation tables.

Every relations are many to many through a relation table.

```mermaid
classDiagram
    Match <|-- MatchListener
    MatchListener <|-- Listener

    Match <|-- MatchHost
    MatchHost <|-- Host

    Match <|-- MatchAction
    MatchAction <|-- Action

    class Host {
        +int id
        +String domain
    }
    class Match {
        +int id
        +String raw_params
    }
     class Listener {
        +int id
        +String raw_params
    }
    class Action {
        +int id
        +String raw_params
    }
    class MatchHost {
        +int id_match
        +int id_host
    }
    class MatchListener {
        +int id_match
        +int id_listener
    }
    class MacthAction {
        +int id_match
        +int id_action
    }
```

### Auto Ssl (tls certificate management)

Relate on a slighty modified version of [acme2](https://docs.rs/acme2/latest/acme2/) crate, which is
[pipelight-acme2](https://github.com/pipelight/acme2).
